{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Stirling Use-of-Force Data Cleaning\
7.31.18 \
\
Duplicate Analysis \
\
- Ran a pivot table on an extended unique ID and found 2,300 matches. Called a meeting to discuss a way forward.  Decided on running separate analyses to isolate departments that have potential duplicate issues.  \
- Expanded IDs to include subject name, type of force, subject actions and location detail. \
- Ran analysis to determine number of repeat IDs by department. Posted summary file to Slack. All told, current analysis shows 1,754 repeat IDs affecting approximately 3,800 forms \'97about 5 percent. \
- Created a separate file of number of potential duplicates and # of forms affected by department for later review\
- We made a determination to err on the side of caution and will eliminate any potential duplicates of unique IDs created from all columns. If the forms do not have any substantive differences we do not have sufficient evidence to keep them in the database and have to assume they are duplicate forms. \
- Sorted new unique id column alphabetically. Created a column called \'93potential_dupe\'94 with an if statement that says if the row is identical to the above mark it with \'93Yes\'94, if not \'93No.\'94 This preserves the original and only marks rows that are identical to the row above. \
- Created new file called \'93potentialdupes.csv\'94 containing all rows marked for deletion as likely duplicates.   \
- Eliminated all rows where there was no secondary officer and an exact match on combination of these columns: \
	- officered\
	- case_report_no\
	- incident_date\
	- incident_time\
	- Location_detail\
	- subect_1_first\
	- subject_1_last\
	- subject_1_actions\
	- subject_1_force_nature\
- Eliminated a total of 1,897 rows of data, making new total count 70588. \
- 24 rows where there is a duplicate ID but also a secondary officer remain.  \
- Eliminated new unique ID column for clean file. \
\
\
Remaining Tasks \
\
- Second and third officers:  We need to see if these officers only appear on another officer\'92s form if if they have filed their own.  \
- Standardizing charges\
- Police involved shootings (craig/sean)\
- Officer deaths \
\
\
\
\
\
\
 \
  \
}