{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Data Diary: Use of Force cleaning week 2\
\
- Replaced old columns with edits created by  Erin in week 1 to drag down size of file. Originals exist in raw file I used, as well as originals. \
- Created new column called officer_id, merging first name, last name and town to create first attempt at unique ID \
- Eliminated all spaces from new column\
- Eliminated all capitalization errors, obvious extra letters in names (514 rows)\
- Merged names with and without middle initials, using badge # or other column info to check (190 rows) \
- Created REGEX filter to break up data by cell\'92s starting letter due to size \
[start a-d]\
- Merged rows on basic misspellings using Cologne-Phonetic analysis, checking primarily on badge # (292 rows)\
- Merged two groups in Bordentown where names appeared as \'93BLANK Bird\'94 and \'93Bird BLANK\'94 but had same badge number (11 rows)   \
- Merged 2532 cells using Cologne-Phonetic analysis. Primarily Middle initials not used on all forms. (End names [a-d]\
- [start e-l] Merged 148 cells using key collision clustering, primarily fixing capitalization. \
- Merged 10 cells using ngram-fingerprint clustering, fixing two cases of typos\
- Merged 2245 cells using Cologne-Phoentic clustering analysis. Primarily middle initials not present on all forms.  \
Merged 2127 cells using Cologne-Phoenetic clustering analysis, bringing total for [e-l] to 4372 out of 24006 rows of data. \
[end e-l]\
[start m-s]\
- Merged 93 cells using key collision clustering analysis. Primarily capitalization inconsistencies\
- Merged 35 cells using ngram clustering analysis. Primarily minor typos.\
- Merged 2748cells using Cologne-Phonetic clustering analysis. Primarily middle initial consistencies and minor spelling errors.  Used Badge numbers to confirm\
- Merged 1813 cells using Cologone-Phonetic clustering analysis, similarly as above, bringing total for [m-s] to 4689 of 23255 rows of data\
[start t-z] \
- Merged 42 rows using key collision and ngram cluster analysis. Capitalization and typos. \
- Merged 1257 rows using Cologne-Phonetic clustering analysis, similarly as above. \
[end t-z] \
- Created officer2id and officer3id columns, using same formula as above (not yet checked)\
\
\
Weird entries \
\

\b (Craig has addressed these) \
\

\b0 Some examples of issues I came across in the early going of name editing
\b \

\b0 \
- Calvin Anderson in East Orange:  Years exp,, badge numbers, rank overlap and are different in places. \
- Sam D Cuong in Atlantic City:  Badge number changes but appears to be same person \
- Darren McConell and Darren M McConnell in Red Bank - Exp and badge differences\
- Chris J Illegible Edison. Badge number on one form different. \
- DavidOrdille Trenton - Different badge numbers \
- ArekAragil Palmyra - Badge # slightly different but may be a typo \
- Brian (J) Stagich Elizabeth - Different badge numbers\
- Cherrick Mills Camden - Different badge numbers\
- Anthony Steneck - Different badge numbers\
- Anthony (e) Batelli Bloomfield - Different badge numbers\
- David Globke Hoboken - Multiple badge numbers\
- Aaron (J) Bernstein Trenton - Different badge numbers for different initials\
- Andrew (J) Redmond Bradley Beach - Different badge numbers for different initials\
- Douglas (J) Reynolds  lindenwold - Different badge numbers for different initials\
- Jose (a) Gonzalez - Different badge numbers\
\
\
\
Tasks remaining\
\
- Run a count on how many badge numbers exist for each entry in \'93officer_id\'94 column; assess size of problem of multiple badge numbers and work on solution. \
- Run checks using OpenRefine on officer2id and officer3id columns, checking for name errors (very small comparatively to original task). If there is no entry it will only appear as department name. \
- Standardize date format for rows that include months, weeks, days instead of years. Going suggestion was to create a decimal representation of 1 year.  So six months becomes 0.5, etc.\
\
\
\
\
\
}